README.md, before:

# CMDx

[![forthebadge](http://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-ruby.svg)](http://forthebadge.com)

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/cmdx.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/cmdx)
[![CI](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/actions/workflows/ruby.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/actions/workflows/ruby.yml)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=shields)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

`CMDx` is a framework for expressive processing of business logic. Design
code of varying levels of complexity that is built through branching and
composition, informative halting, and exhaustive tracing/debugging.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'cmdx'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install cmdx

## Table of contents

- [Getting Started](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/getting_started.md)
- [Configuration](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/configuration.md)
- Basics
  - [Setup](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/setup.md)
  - [Call](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/call.md)
  - [Context](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/context.md)
  - [Run](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/run.md)
- Interruptions
  - [Halt](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/interruptions/halt.md)
  - [Faults](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/interruptions/faults.md)
  - [Exceptions](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/interruptions/exceptions.md)
- Parameters
  - [Definitions](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/definitions.md)
  - [Namespacing](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/namespacing.md)
  - [Coercions](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/coercions.md)
  - [Validations](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/validations.md)
  - [Defaults](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/defaults.md)
- Outcomes
  - [Result](#results)
  - [States](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/outcomes/states.md)
  - [Statuses](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/outcomes/statuses.md)
- [Hooks](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/hooks.md)
- [Batch](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/batch.md)
- [Logging](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/logging.md)
- [Tips & Tricks](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/tips_and_tricks.md)
- [Example](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/example.md)

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/drexed/cmdx. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the CMDx project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

Fix leaky specs (#1)
* Fix leaky specs

* Remove version 3.1 from ci action

* Linter fixes

* Fix require i18n issue

* Require logger in gemspec

* Change for ruby 3.4

* Specs by version

* Linter fixes

* Try again

* Try again

* Retry

* Fix specs

README.md, after:

# CMDx

[![forthebadge](http://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-ruby.svg)](http://forthebadge.com)

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/cmdx.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/cmdx)
[![CI](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/actions/workflows/ruby.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/actions/workflows/ruby.yml)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=shields)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

`CMDx` is a framework for expressive processing of business logic. Design
code of varying levels of complexity that is built through branching and
composition, informative halting, and exhaustive tracing/debugging.

## Installation

**Prerequisites:** This gem requires Ruby `>= 3.1` to be installed.

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'cmdx'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install cmdx

## Table of contents

- [Getting Started](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/getting_started.md)
- [Configuration](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/configuration.md)
- Basics
  - [Setup](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/setup.md)
  - [Call](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/call.md)
  - [Context](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/context.md)
  - [Run](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/basics/run.md)
- Interruptions
  - [Halt](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/interruptions/halt.md)
  - [Faults](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/interruptions/faults.md)
  - [Exceptions](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/interruptions/exceptions.md)
- Parameters
  - [Definitions](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/definitions.md)
  - [Namespacing](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/namespacing.md)
  - [Coercions](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/coercions.md)
  - [Validations](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/validations.md)
  - [Defaults](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/parameters/defaults.md)
- Outcomes
  - [Result](#results)
  - [States](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/outcomes/states.md)
  - [Statuses](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/outcomes/statuses.md)
- [Hooks](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/hooks.md)
- [Batch](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/batch.md)
- [Logging](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/logging.md)
- [Tips & Tricks](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/tips_and_tricks.md)
- [Example](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/example.md)

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/drexed/cmdx. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the CMDx project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
