docs/attributes/coercions.md, before:

# Attributes - Coercions

Attribute coercions automatically convert task arguments to expected types, ensuring type safety while providing flexible input handling. Coercions transform raw input values into the specified types, supporting simple conversions like string-to-integer and complex operations like JSON parsing.

## Table of Contents

- [Usage](#usage)
- [Built-in Coercions](#built-in-coercions)
- [Declarations](#declarations)
  - [Proc or Lambda](#proc-or-lambda)
  - [Class or Module](#class-or-module)
- [Removals](#removals)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)

## Usage

Define attribute types to enable automatic coercion:

```ruby
class ParseMetrics < CMDx::Task
  # Coerce into a symbol
  attribute :measurement_type, type: :symbol

  # Coerce into a rational fallback to big decimal
  attribute :value, type: [:rational, :big_decimal]

  # Coerce with options
  attribute :recorded_at, type: :date, strptime: "%m-%d-%Y"

  def work
    measurement_type #=> :temperature
    recorded_at      #=> <Date 2024-01-23>
    value            #=> 98.6 (Float)
  end
end

ParseMetrics.execute(
  measurement_type: "temperature",
  recorded_at: "01-23-2020",
  value: "98.6"
)
```

> [!TIP]
> Specify multiple coercion types for attributes that could be a variety of value formats. CMDx attempts each type in order until one succeeds.

## Built-in Coercions

| Type | Options | Description | Examples |
|------|---------|-------------|----------|
| `:array` | | Array conversion with JSON support | `"val"` → `["val"]`<br>`"[1,2,3]"` → `[1, 2, 3]` |
| `:big_decimal` | `:precision` | High-precision decimal | `"123.456"` → `BigDecimal("123.456")` |
| `:boolean` | | Boolean with text patterns | `"yes"` → `true`, `"no"` → `false` |
| `:complex` | | Complex numbers | `"1+2i"` → `Complex(1, 2)` |
| `:date` | `:strptime` | Date objects | `"2024-01-23"` → `Date.new(2024, 1, 23)` |
| `:datetime` | `:strptime` | DateTime objects | `"2024-01-23 10:30"` → `DateTime.new(2024, 1, 23, 10, 30)` |
| `:float` | | Floating-point numbers | `"123.45"` → `123.45` |
| `:hash` | | Hash conversion with JSON support | `'{"a":1}'` → `{"a" => 1}` |
| `:integer` | | Integer with hex/octal support | `"0xFF"` → `255`, `"077"` → `63` |
| `:rational` | | Rational numbers | `"1/2"` → `Rational(1, 2)` |
| `:string` | | String conversion | `123` → `"123"` |
| `:symbol` | | Symbol conversion | `"abc"` → `:abc` |
| `:time` | `:strptime` | Time objects | `"10:30:00"` → `Time.new(2024, 1, 23, 10, 30)` |

## Declarations

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Coercions must raise a CMDx::CoercionError and its message is used as part of the fault reason and metadata.

### Proc or Lambda

Use anonymous functions for simple coercion logic:

```ruby
class TransformCoordinates < CMDx::Task
  # Proc
  register :callback, :geolocation, proc do |value, options = {}|
    begin
      Geolocation(value)
    rescue StandardError
      raise CMDx::CoercionError, "could not convert into a geolocation"
    end
  end

  # Lambda
  register :callback, :geolocation, ->(value, options = {}) {
    begin
      Geolocation(value)
    rescue StandardError
      raise CMDx::CoercionError, "could not convert into a geolocation"
    end
  }
end
```

### Class or Module

Register custom coercion logic for specialized type handling:

```ruby
class GeolocationCoercion
  def self.call(value, options = {})
    Geolocation(value)
  rescue StandardError
    raise CMDx::CoercionError, "could not convert into a geolocation"
  end
end

class TransformCoordinates < CMDx::Task
  register :coercion, :geolocation, GeolocationCoercion

  attribute :latitude, type: :geolocation
end
```

## Removals

Remove custom coercions when no longer needed:

> [!WARNING]
> Only one removal operation is allowed per `deregister` call. Multiple removals require separate calls.

```ruby
class TransformCoordinates < CMDx::Task
  deregister :coercion, :geolocation
end
```

## Error Handling

Coercion failures provide detailed error information including attribute paths, attempted types, and specific failure reasons:

```ruby
class AnalyzePerformance < CMDx::Task
  attribute  :iterations, type: :integer
  attribute  :score, type: [:float, :big_decimal]

  def work
    # Your logic here...
  end
end

result = AnalyzePerformance.execute(
  iterations: "not-a-number",
  score: "invalid-float"
)

result.state    #=> "interrupted"
result.status   #=> "failed"
result.reason   #=> "iterations could not coerce into an integer. score could not coerce into one of: float, big_decimal."
result.metadata #=> {
                #     messages: {
                #       iterations: ["could not coerce into an integer"],
                #       score: ["could not coerce into one of: float, big_decimal"]
                #     }
                #   }
```

---

- **Prev:** [Attributes - Naming](naming.md)
- **Next:** [Attributes - Validations](validations.md)

Commit message:

Update install template with more global config options

docs/attributes/coercions.md, after:

# Attributes - Coercions

Attribute coercions automatically convert task arguments to expected types, ensuring type safety while providing flexible input handling. Coercions transform raw input values into the specified types, supporting simple conversions like string-to-integer and complex operations like JSON parsing.

Check out the [Getting Started](https://github.com/drexed/cmdx/blob/main/docs/getting_started.md#coercions) docs for global configuration.

## Table of Contents

- [Usage](#usage)
- [Built-in Coercions](#built-in-coercions)
- [Declarations](#declarations)
  - [Proc or Lambda](#proc-or-lambda)
  - [Class or Module](#class-or-module)
- [Removals](#removals)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)

## Usage

Define attribute types to enable automatic coercion:

```ruby
class ParseMetrics < CMDx::Task
  # Coerce into a symbol
  attribute :measurement_type, type: :symbol

  # Coerce into a rational fallback to big decimal
  attribute :value, type: [:rational, :big_decimal]

  # Coerce with options
  attribute :recorded_at, type: :date, strptime: "%m-%d-%Y"

  def work
    measurement_type #=> :temperature
    recorded_at      #=> <Date 2024-01-23>
    value            #=> 98.6 (Float)
  end
end

ParseMetrics.execute(
  measurement_type: "temperature",
  recorded_at: "01-23-2020",
  value: "98.6"
)
```

> [!TIP]
> Specify multiple coercion types for attributes that could be a variety of value formats. CMDx attempts each type in order until one succeeds.

## Built-in Coercions

| Type | Options | Description | Examples |
|------|---------|-------------|----------|
| `:array` | | Array conversion with JSON support | `"val"` → `["val"]`<br>`"[1,2,3]"` → `[1, 2, 3]` |
| `:big_decimal` | `:precision` | High-precision decimal | `"123.456"` → `BigDecimal("123.456")` |
| `:boolean` | | Boolean with text patterns | `"yes"` → `true`, `"no"` → `false` |
| `:complex` | | Complex numbers | `"1+2i"` → `Complex(1, 2)` |
| `:date` | `:strptime` | Date objects | `"2024-01-23"` → `Date.new(2024, 1, 23)` |
| `:datetime` | `:strptime` | DateTime objects | `"2024-01-23 10:30"` → `DateTime.new(2024, 1, 23, 10, 30)` |
| `:float` | | Floating-point numbers | `"123.45"` → `123.45` |
| `:hash` | | Hash conversion with JSON support | `'{"a":1}'` → `{"a" => 1}` |
| `:integer` | | Integer with hex/octal support | `"0xFF"` → `255`, `"077"` → `63` |
| `:rational` | | Rational numbers | `"1/2"` → `Rational(1, 2)` |
| `:string` | | String conversion | `123` → `"123"` |
| `:symbol` | | Symbol conversion | `"abc"` → `:abc` |
| `:time` | `:strptime` | Time objects | `"10:30:00"` → `Time.new(2024, 1, 23, 10, 30)` |

## Declarations

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Coercions must raise a CMDx::CoercionError and its message is used as part of the fault reason and metadata.

### Proc or Lambda

Use anonymous functions for simple coercion logic:

```ruby
class TransformCoordinates < CMDx::Task
  # Proc
  register :callback, :geolocation, proc do |value, options = {}|
    begin
      Geolocation(value)
    rescue StandardError
      raise CMDx::CoercionError, "could not convert into a geolocation"
    end
  end

  # Lambda
  register :callback, :geolocation, ->(value, options = {}) {
    begin
      Geolocation(value)
    rescue StandardError
      raise CMDx::CoercionError, "could not convert into a geolocation"
    end
  }
end
```

### Class or Module

Register custom coercion logic for specialized type handling:

```ruby
class GeolocationCoercion
  def self.call(value, options = {})
    Geolocation(value)
  rescue StandardError
    raise CMDx::CoercionError, "could not convert into a geolocation"
  end
end

class TransformCoordinates < CMDx::Task
  register :coercion, :geolocation, GeolocationCoercion

  attribute :latitude, type: :geolocation
end
```

## Removals

Remove custom coercions when no longer needed:

> [!WARNING]
> Only one removal operation is allowed per `deregister` call. Multiple removals require separate calls.

```ruby
class TransformCoordinates < CMDx::Task
  deregister :coercion, :geolocation
end
```

## Error Handling

Coercion failures provide detailed error information including attribute paths, attempted types, and specific failure reasons:

```ruby
class AnalyzePerformance < CMDx::Task
  attribute  :iterations, type: :integer
  attribute  :score, type: [:float, :big_decimal]

  def work
    # Your logic here...
  end
end

result = AnalyzePerformance.execute(
  iterations: "not-a-number",
  score: "invalid-float"
)

result.state    #=> "interrupted"
result.status   #=> "failed"
result.reason   #=> "iterations could not coerce into an integer. score could not coerce into one of: float, big_decimal."
result.metadata #=> {
                #     messages: {
                #       iterations: ["could not coerce into an integer"],
                #       score: ["could not coerce into one of: float, big_decimal"]
                #     }
                #   }
```

---

- **Prev:** [Attributes - Naming](naming.md)
- **Next:** [Attributes - Validations](validations.md)
