docs/attributes/definitions.md, before:

# Attributes - Definitions

Attributes define your task's interface with automatic validation, type coercion, and accessor generation. They're the contract between callers and your business logic.

## Declarations

!!! tip

    Prefer using the `required` and `optional` alias for `attributes` for brevity and to clearly signal intent.

### Optional

Optional attributes return `nil` when not provided.

```ruby
class ScheduleEvent < CMDx::Task
  attribute :title
  attributes :duration, :location

  # Alias for attributes (preferred)
  optional :description
  optional :visibility, :attendees

  def work
    title       #=> "Team Standup"
    duration    #=> 30
    location    #=> nil
    description #=> nil
    visibility  #=> nil
    attendees   #=> ["alice@company.com", "bob@company.com"]
  end
end

# Attributes passed as keyword arguments
ScheduleEvent.execute(
  title: "Team Standup",
  duration: 30,
  attendees: ["alice@company.com", "bob@company.com"]
)
```

### Required

Required attributes must be provided in call arguments or task execution will fail.

```ruby
class PublishArticle < CMDx::Task
  attribute :title, required: true
  attributes :content, :author_id, required: true

  # Alias for attributes => required: true (preferred)
  required :category
  required :status, :tags

  # Conditionally required
  required :publisher, if: :magazine?
  attribute :approver, required: true, unless: proc { status == :published }

  def work
    title     #=> "Getting Started with Ruby"
    content   #=> "This is a comprehensive guide..."
    author_id #=> 42
    category  #=> "programming"
    status    #=> :published
    tags      #=> ["ruby", "beginner"]
    publisher #=> "Eastbay"
    approver  #=> #<Editor ...>
  end

  private

  def magazine?
    context.title.ends_with?("[M]")
  end
end
```

!!! note

    When a required attribute's condition evaluates to `false`, the attribute behaves as optional. All other attribute features such as coercions, validations, defaults, and transformations still apply normally.

## Sources

Attributes read from any accessible object—not just context. Use sources to pull data from models, services, or any callable:

### Context

```ruby
class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  # Default source is :context
  required :database_name
  optional :compression_level

  # Explicitly specify context source
  attribute :backup_path, source: :context

  def work
    database_name     #=> context.database_name
    backup_path       #=> context.backup_path
    compression_level #=> context.compression_level
  end
end
```

### Symbol References

Reference instance methods by symbol for dynamic source values:

```ruby
class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  attributes :host, :credentials, source: :database_config

  # Access from declared attributes
  attribute :connection_string, source: :credentials

  def work
    # Your logic here...
  end

  private

  def database_config
    @database_config ||= DatabaseConfig.find(context.database_name)
  end
end
```

### Proc or Lambda

Use anonymous functions for dynamic source values:

```ruby
class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  # Proc
  attribute :timestamp, source: proc { Time.current }

  # Lambda
  attribute :server, source: -> { Current.server }
end
```

### Class or Module

For complex source logic, use classes or modules:

```ruby
class DatabaseResolver
  def self.call(task)
    Database.find(task.context.database_name)
  end
end

class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  # Class or Module
  attribute :schema, source: DatabaseResolver

  # Instance
  attribute :metadata, source: DatabaseResolver.new
end
```

## Nesting

Build complex structures with nested attributes. Children inherit their parent as source and support all attribute options:

!!! note

    Nested attributes support all features: naming, coercions, validations, defaults, and more.

```ruby
class ConfigureServer < CMDx::Task
  # Required parent with required children
  required :network_config do
    required :hostname, :port, :protocol, :subnet
    optional :load_balancer
    attribute :firewall_rules
  end

  # Optional parent with conditional children
  optional :ssl_config do
    required :certificate_path, :private_key # Only required if ssl_config provided
    optional :enable_http2, prefix: true
  end

  # Multi-level nesting
  attribute :monitoring do
    required :provider

    optional :alerting do
      required :threshold_percentage
      optional :notification_channel
    end
  end

  def work
    network_config   #=> { hostname: "api.company.com" ... }
    hostname         #=> "api.company.com"
    load_balancer    #=> nil
  end
end

ConfigureServer.execute(
  server_id: "srv-001",
  network_config: {
    hostname: "api.company.com",
    port: 443,
    protocol: "https",
    subnet: "10.0.1.0/24",
    firewall_rules: "allow_web_traffic"
  },
  monitoring: {
    provider: "datadog",
    alerting: {
      threshold_percentage: 85.0,
      notification_channel: "slack"
    }
  }
)
```

!!! warning "Important"

    Child requirements only apply when the parent is provided—perfect for optional structures.

## Error Handling

Validation failures provide detailed, structured error messages:

!!! note

    Nested attributes are only validated when their parent is present and valid.

```ruby
class ConfigureServer < CMDx::Task
  required :server_id, :environment
  required :network_config do
    required :hostname, :port
  end

  def work
    # Your logic here...
  end
end

# Missing required top-level attributes
result = ConfigureServer.execute(server_id: "srv-001")

result.state    #=> "interrupted"
result.status   #=> "failed"
result.reason   #=> "Invalid"
result.metadata #=> {
                #     errors: {
                #       full_message: "environment is required. network_config is required.",
                #       messages: {
                #         environment: ["is required"],
                #         network_config: ["is required"]
                #       }
                #     }
                #   }

# Missing required nested attributes
result = ConfigureServer.execute(
  server_id: "srv-001",
  environment: "production",
  network_config: { hostname: "api.company.com" } # Missing port
)

result.state    #=> "interrupted"
result.status   #=> "failed"
result.reason   #=> "Invalid"
result.metadata #=> {
                #     errors: {
                #       full_message: "port is required.",
                #       messages: {
                #         port: ["is required"]
                #       }
                #     }
                #   }
```

Commit message:

Add order dependent attr definition note

docs/attributes/definitions.md, after:

# Attributes - Definitions

Attributes define your task's interface with automatic validation, type coercion, and accessor generation. They're the contract between callers and your business logic.

## Declarations

!!! warning "Important"

    Attributes are order-dependent, so if you need to reference them as a source or use them in conditions, make sure they’re defined in the correct order.

!!! tip

    Prefer using the `required` and `optional` alias for `attributes` for brevity and to clearly signal intent.

### Optional

Optional attributes return `nil` when not provided.

```ruby
class ScheduleEvent < CMDx::Task
  attribute :title
  attributes :duration, :location

  # Alias for attributes (preferred)
  optional :description
  optional :visibility, :attendees

  def work
    title       #=> "Team Standup"
    duration    #=> 30
    location    #=> nil
    description #=> nil
    visibility  #=> nil
    attendees   #=> ["alice@company.com", "bob@company.com"]
  end
end

# Attributes passed as keyword arguments
ScheduleEvent.execute(
  title: "Team Standup",
  duration: 30,
  attendees: ["alice@company.com", "bob@company.com"]
)
```

### Required

Required attributes must be provided in call arguments or task execution will fail.

```ruby
class PublishArticle < CMDx::Task
  attribute :title, required: true
  attributes :content, :author_id, required: true

  # Alias for attributes => required: true (preferred)
  required :category
  required :status, :tags

  # Conditionally required
  required :publisher, if: :magazine?
  attribute :approver, required: true, unless: proc { status == :published }

  def work
    title     #=> "Getting Started with Ruby"
    content   #=> "This is a comprehensive guide..."
    author_id #=> 42
    category  #=> "programming"
    status    #=> :published
    tags      #=> ["ruby", "beginner"]
    publisher #=> "Eastbay"
    approver  #=> #<Editor ...>
  end

  private

  def magazine?
    context.title.ends_with?("[M]")
  end
end
```

!!! note

    When a required attribute's condition evaluates to `false`, the attribute behaves as optional. All other attribute features such as coercions, validations, defaults, and transformations still apply normally.

## Sources

Attributes read from any accessible object—not just context. Use sources to pull data from models, services, or any callable:

### Context

```ruby
class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  # Default source is :context
  required :database_name
  optional :compression_level

  # Explicitly specify context source
  attribute :backup_path, source: :context

  def work
    database_name     #=> context.database_name
    backup_path       #=> context.backup_path
    compression_level #=> context.compression_level
  end
end
```

### Symbol References

Reference instance methods by symbol for dynamic source values:

```ruby
class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  attributes :host, :credentials, source: :database_config

  # Access from declared attributes
  attribute :connection_string, source: :credentials

  def work
    # Your logic here...
  end

  private

  def database_config
    @database_config ||= DatabaseConfig.find(context.database_name)
  end
end
```

### Proc or Lambda

Use anonymous functions for dynamic source values:

```ruby
class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  # Proc
  attribute :timestamp, source: proc { Time.current }

  # Lambda
  attribute :server, source: -> { Current.server }
end
```

### Class or Module

For complex source logic, use classes or modules:

```ruby
class DatabaseResolver
  def self.call(task)
    Database.find(task.context.database_name)
  end
end

class BackupDatabase < CMDx::Task
  # Class or Module
  attribute :schema, source: DatabaseResolver

  # Instance
  attribute :metadata, source: DatabaseResolver.new
end
```

## Nesting

Build complex structures with nested attributes. Children inherit their parent as source and support all attribute options:

!!! note

    Nested attributes support all features: naming, coercions, validations, defaults, and more.

```ruby
class ConfigureServer < CMDx::Task
  # Required parent with required children
  required :network_config do
    required :hostname, :port, :protocol, :subnet
    optional :load_balancer
    attribute :firewall_rules
  end

  # Optional parent with conditional children
  optional :ssl_config do
    required :certificate_path, :private_key # Only required if ssl_config provided
    optional :enable_http2, prefix: true
  end

  # Multi-level nesting
  attribute :monitoring do
    required :provider

    optional :alerting do
      required :threshold_percentage
      optional :notification_channel
    end
  end

  def work
    network_config   #=> { hostname: "api.company.com" ... }
    hostname         #=> "api.company.com"
    load_balancer    #=> nil
  end
end

ConfigureServer.execute(
  server_id: "srv-001",
  network_config: {
    hostname: "api.company.com",
    port: 443,
    protocol: "https",
    subnet: "10.0.1.0/24",
    firewall_rules: "allow_web_traffic"
  },
  monitoring: {
    provider: "datadog",
    alerting: {
      threshold_percentage: 85.0,
      notification_channel: "slack"
    }
  }
)
```

!!! warning "Important"

    Child requirements only apply when the parent is provided—perfect for optional structures.

## Error Handling

Validation failures provide detailed, structured error messages:

!!! note

    Nested attributes are only validated when their parent is present and valid.

```ruby
class ConfigureServer < CMDx::Task
  required :server_id, :environment
  required :network_config do
    required :hostname, :port
  end

  def work
    # Your logic here...
  end
end

# Missing required top-level attributes
result = ConfigureServer.execute(server_id: "srv-001")

result.state    #=> "interrupted"
result.status   #=> "failed"
result.reason   #=> "Invalid"
result.metadata #=> {
                #     errors: {
                #       full_message: "environment is required. network_config is required.",
                #       messages: {
                #         environment: ["is required"],
                #         network_config: ["is required"]
                #       }
                #     }
                #   }

# Missing required nested attributes
result = ConfigureServer.execute(
  server_id: "srv-001",
  environment: "production",
  network_config: { hostname: "api.company.com" } # Missing port
)

result.state    #=> "interrupted"
result.status   #=> "failed"
result.reason   #=> "Invalid"
result.metadata #=> {
                #     errors: {
                #       full_message: "port is required.",
                #       messages: {
                #         port: ["is required"]
                #       }
                #     }
                #   }
```
